.TH REDMTZ 1 "2026-04-13" "1.4.0" "REDMTZ Seatbelt"
.SH NAME
redmtz \- AI Governance for Python Functions and MCP Agents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B redmtz
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B REDMTZ Seatbelt
is a cryptographic governance layer for AI agents and autonomous systems.
Every agent action is intercepted, checked against a policy, and logged to
a tamper-evident, hash-chained audit ledger signed with Ed25519.

The audit proof you generate today holds up in court tomorrow.

.B The three enforcement paths:
.RS
.IP \(bu 4
\fB@govern decorator\fR \(em enforced at the Python function level. The agent cannot bypass.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBredmtz hook install\fR \(em enforced at the Claude Code harness level. Fires before any tool executes.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBredmtz serve (MCP)\fR \(em cooperative. Agent chooses to call the governance server.
.RE

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B seatbelt
Print the Seatbelt quick-reference guide and exit.

.TP
.B serve
Start the MCP governance server (stdio transport).
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-policy \fIPOLICY\fR
Policy template to enforce. Choices:
.RS
.IP \fBsafe_defaults\fR 4
Log all, allow safe reads/writes. Default.
.IP \fBread_only\fR 4
Block all writes.
.IP \fBaudit_mode\fR 4
Allow all, log everything to ledger.
.IP \fBstrict_prod\fR 4
Block destructive patterns by default.
.IP \fBstrict_whitelist\fR 4
Only allow actions defined in a role whitelist JSON.
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-whitelist \fIROLE_FILE\fR
Path to a role whitelist JSON file. Required for strict_whitelist policy.
.RE

.TP
.B audit
Query the audit ledger from the terminal.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-limit \fIN\fR
Number of recent entries to show (max 100, default: 10).
.TP
.B \-\-csv \fI[OUTPUT_PATH]\fR
Export full ledger as a signed CSV. Defaults to ~/redmtz_audit.csv if no path given.
.RE

.TP
.B hook install \fIPLATFORM\fR
Install Seatbelt as an enforced PreToolUse hook for an agent platform.
Currently supported: \fBclaude-code\fR

.TP
.B hook uninstall \fIPLATFORM\fR
Remove Seatbelt hook from an agent platform.

.TP
.B version
Print version and exit.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B REDMTZ_HOOK_POLICY
Policy to enforce when running as a hook. Default: \fBsafe_defaults\fR
.TP
.B REDMTZ_HOOK_WHITELIST
Path to a role whitelist JSON file when running as a hook.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Start the MCP governance server with strict production policy:
.B redmtz serve \-\-policy strict_prod

.TP
View the last 25 governance decisions:
.B redmtz audit \-\-limit 25

.TP
Export a signed audit CSV for compliance:
.B redmtz audit \-\-csv ~/compliance/redmtz_audit.csv

.TP
Install enforced governance hook for Claude Code:
.B export REDMTZ_HOOK_POLICY=strict_prod
.br
.B redmtz hook install claude-code

.TP
Use a role whitelist with MCP server:
.B redmtz serve \-\-policy strict_whitelist \-\-whitelist role_devops_senior.json

.TP
Quick governance check (two terminals):
.B redmtz serve \-\-policy safe_defaults
.br
.B watch \-n 1 'redmtz audit \-\-limit 5'

.SH FILES
.TP
.I .claude/settings.json
Claude Code hook configuration. Written by \fBredmtz hook install\fR.
.TP
.I ~/redmtz_audit.csv
Default CSV export path for \fBredmtz audit \-\-csv\fR.

.SH POLICIES
.TP
.B safe_defaults
Logs all actions. Allows safe reads and writes. Blocks known destructive patterns.
Recommended for development environments.
.TP
.B read_only
Blocks all write operations. Safe for read-only agent tasks.
.TP
.B audit_mode
Allows all actions but logs everything. Use for observability without enforcement.
WARNING: Never use in production. All actions pass through.
.TP
.B strict_prod
Blocks destructive patterns by default. Recommended for production workloads.
.TP
.B strict_whitelist
Only allows actions defined in the role whitelist JSON file.
Most restrictive policy. Requires \-\-whitelist flag.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error — see stderr for details.

.SH THE PROMISE
Every decision leaves a cryptographically signed record.
Provable. Auditable. Enforceable. Even after quantum.

.SH AUTHOR
Robert Benitez <robert@redmtz.com>
.br
U.S. Provisional Patent Application 63/994,312

.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation: https://redmtz.com
.br
Source: https://github.com/redmtz-t/seatbelt
.br
PyPI: https://pypi.org/project/redmtz
